my name is Edwin Taylor I'm a wildlife
photographer and all-around animal
enthusiast and this this is the science
of cutie
[Music]
this episode will focus on some of the
cutest animals in the United Kingdom
starting at the nation's shore the
Norfolk coast is the final frontier
between England and the North Sea
Manning this border is Britain's
hobbyist infantry Harbor sealed
stationed themselves along the coast
elegantly patrolling the beaches
perhaps the term elegance was rather
ambitious
[Music]
that chunky physique isn't due to
overindulgence in an unhealthy lifestyle
it is in fact you to a thick layer of
blubber which keeps the animals warm in
the frigid sea
[Music]
these plump pinnipeds haul themselves
onto land to arrest and warm up
understandably they are rather exhausted
they may have spent days fishing at sea
[Music]
harbor seals have 34 to 36 teeth ideal
for catching fish and crushing
crustaceans at a glance they seem
heartbreaking the ill-equipped for their
beach environment to the sea though
these chub Marines are tailor-made
[Music]
pectoral flippers contain the same
skeletal elements found in the fore
limbs of land mammals they're comical
stubbornness doesn't just make them
great scratching aids but allows the
flippers to conform to their bodies
significantly reducing underwater drag
powerful webbed hind flippers propel and
steer them through the water large oily
eyes led CLC in cold dark waters and
long sensitive whiskers help them feel
their surroundings when visibility is
poor at the end of summer
female harbor seals come ashore to give
birth to a single pup these pups are
fantastically independent able to swim
hours after being born and are
wonderfully curious
that's a nice shiny rock or not
maybe some local wildlife is more
interesting well everyone else seems to
be snoozing anyway that must be the way
to go
[Music]
adopting a banana pose may look a bit
absurd but as how these seals regulates
their body temperature more cute
creatures I found further ashore green
and pleasant land encompassing open
moorland and temperate forests
accommodate the United Kingdom's largest
[Music]
Red Deer have been a splendid regal
presence in the British countryside for
millennia
populations of Red Deer maintain a
certain social status quote with younger
fresh-faced stags
living in bachelor groups away from the
main herd for the majority of the year
stags begin growing antlers each spring
as they grow the antlers are engulfed in
a fuzzy layer of velvet that provides
nutrients to the burn material beneath
stags grow larger more branched antlers
year on year as summer departs so does
the pelvis the stags now sport clean
hard battle-ready antlers
[Music]
let's begin to turn as they start sizing
each other up
[Music]
they lock antlers rehearsing for the
upcoming rut but they will return to the
Heinz territory to compete for breeding
rights although for these young stags
it all seems somewhat futile considering
the current top competition the dominant
stag like this chap has control over the
herd of Heinz and during the rut he will
use his impressive headset to ward off
rival males these Heinz are worth
fighting for
if he successfully retains his reign for
the upcoming year then he will mate with
each hind who in turn will each have an
adorable form in spring
forms are born of the distinctive
speckled pattern which helps camouflage
them whilst they're less confident on
their feet like the adults the forms
large eyes are placed on the side of
their head giving them a panoramic view
to spot danger there will rely on their
mother's milk for three to four months
and will stay by her side for up to a
whole year before becoming a speckle
free fully independent adult
[Music]
moving towards suburbia one recognizable
canid has adapted well to the changing
landscape thriving in a more urban
environment the red fox is an incredibly
adaptive species this vixen has made a
den underneath an industrial building
for herself and her family
[Music]
this single mother has a work cut out in
spring she not only needs to support
herself but a whole litter of clumsy
ginger Cubs too
[Music]
often the father would bring the mother
food while she supports their offspring
but in this case the father figure is no
longer around the Cubs rely on the
Vixens milk for up to two months after
which their teeth will have developed
enough for purely solid food until then
this mother will have to put up with
being a dependable refueling station
after lunch it's playtime the cops evie
explore their surroundings being careful
not to stray too far from the den but
perhaps not careful enough to stay
completely out of trouble mother opts to
sit out indulging in some well-earned me
time this energetic play isn't pure
tomfoolery
the Cubs vastly benefit from learning
their physical limits and skills even if
it costs a tumble or two hunting skills
are also practiced by stalking their
siblings pouncing on unsuspecting leaves
will directly translate to preying on
voles as the cubs mature
[Music]
[Applause]
all this play can be rather draining but
the Cubs still have a lot to learn in a
few months that they will become fully
independent putting all this practice
into action
I'm at the Norfolk coast this area is
very famous for gray seals and in winter
so November through December they all
come ashore and have their pups but I'm
here at the end of summer so I'm here to
try and find harbor seals and their pups
because they are young earlier in the
year so at the moment I'm just walking
along the sand dunes scanning the beach
behind me trying to find some seals
but we're in luck I found some seals
it's a bit of a relief because I've come
all the way to Norfolk said I didn't get
a bit a bit West at the time this whole
film could have had to be prescriptive
slow down now on that big haul out point
on the beach so I guess I need to go
down and out to start getting some
footage for this film so I'm on the
beach now with the seals and I'm trying
to get some it's a nice smooth footage
but the problem is with the tripod cuz
no-name used to put and get on the solid
ground and it all works fine but today
obviously I've got on the beach sits on
a nice soft sand which means all the
legs keep digging it
so as I'm trying to pan or get nice
smooth shots of the seals the legs are
just going deeper and deeper and all the
footage is going to take in just judging
about if I had thought this through I
would have done this brought something
like some CDs or something to put
underneath each of the tripod legs and
that would stop them sinking in for
dinner so I think I'm going to have to
do just bury the leg as much like hand
so they can't go in any further and then
hope that holds the camera steady while
I try and do do some filming
so I've got pretty much all the footage
I needed this short film now I've been
here all day I managed to get some good
footage as well at the harbor seal pups
which is which is the main intention of
coming here there's one little bit of
footage I have managed to get there
which is the harbor seals doing their
banana pose this is easiest to explain
by just showing yourself I'll
demonstrate it now but it's essentially
when they lift their heads and the tails
up at the same time while the lying on
their back and belly so that's why I'm
going to try and quickly get some
footage up now before the light
completely goes
[Music]
well I managed to get the banana post
footage so that's me done here I've got
the footage I need now to make the short
film I hope you enjoyed this
behind-the-scenes look and I hope you
enjoyed the final the final film thanks
for watching
[Music]